Sally MacFarlane: Oh wait a couple minutes.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, we might get started.
Sally MacFarlane: So, welcome to me.
Sally MacFarlane: 26 country vehicle Australia Pacific time zone.
Sally MacFarlane: housekeeping for the beginning.
Sally MacFarlane: Of the antitrust notice.
Sally MacFarlane: Which is an agenda if you are not already on.
Sally MacFarlane: Things being recorded.
Sally MacFarlane: Please need and raise your hand.
Sally MacFarlane: Up have a question.
Sally MacFarlane: General announcements, so the incentive program program update.
Sally MacFarlane: heart has shed light it's done that hot did you want to say anything about that.
Hart Montgomery: I think, is really the only other person here and he's followed this from the beginning to the point that i've listed him as a co author on that document.
Hart Montgomery: it's just sort of an expanded proposal of what TIM has written.
Hart Montgomery: With a bunch of extra details and some stuff that's useful for explaining.
Hart Montgomery: You know, things to people that aren't as familiar with the technical details.
Hart Montgomery: That was designed for essentially lawyers to read.
Sally MacFarlane: Right.
Hart Montgomery: Do you have any questions, I know you haven't had time to read it, but.
Sally MacFarlane: So is it, are you looking for feedback, are you.
Hart Montgomery: Sure yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: that's a major.
Hart Montgomery: If you have time.
Hart Montgomery: we've had a number of people look through it already but.
Hart Montgomery: If you're interested.
Hart Montgomery: You know i'm certainly not going to be sad about feedback.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: Thank you.
Sally MacFarlane: i'm the roadmap I just had a quick look at the roadmap I think it's still needs more attention because coming up to 22 for.
Sally MacFarlane: Release and.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah, this is probably a little a little out of date.
Danno Ferrin: yeah so there wasn't much to do for the 22 dot 121 for release it was all in line for 24 mrc to.
Danno Ferrin: Gary wanted to hold it off because there was a consensus bug that I help them resolve Thursday morning Mike i'm busy evening your time and time for the.
Danno Ferrin: Hard work that the shadow work again and they're traveling back so I don't know how long we want to wait for Gary and come back and get back and coherence into working mode before we.
Danno Ferrin: And then the rest of the team for figure out when to do our cto there are changes that there is interested in and the vm work.
Danno Ferrin: So I would like to get it to 24 oh and reasonable time frame the changes we did for the long and gas to get to have some some really positive garbage collection in high volume environments so.
Danno Ferrin: that's something that you know we like to do, but you know we gotta trust compassion for the international travelers I didn't want to fly to Amsterdam Easter week so.
Danno Ferrin: yeah be patient for those it shows you.
Sally MacFarlane: Say there's a.
Sally MacFarlane: bug fix that we need.
Sally MacFarlane: merged in before we can do it to.
Sally MacFarlane: The upshot.
Danno Ferrin: Is that.
Sally MacFarlane: And that the side of the consensus bug you were just talking about.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah it's already imagine just need you to develop.
Danno Ferrin: yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: i'm okay i'm.
Danno Ferrin: Good he is not on this call is, if we want to try and get the IPC rpc in RC two or three and over 2401 or 24 oh fcs.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah I think it would be good to get that one in I mean if you feel about that I don't.
Sally MacFarlane: Like it seems insignificant I did ask mark on my tablet look at it and then he I know he's halfway through.
Sally MacFarlane: But yeah I followed that up with him today.
Sally MacFarlane: Because yeah it would be good to get that in.
Danno Ferrin: That it's like you'd be surprised that people really want to use it so.
Danno Ferrin: yeah I was kind of surprised that.
Danno Ferrin: is actually possible with the Java, but just just an idea.
Sally MacFarlane: Mention.
Sally MacFarlane: So Lucas just pinged me about 24 zero, which is shadow the 30th of April, which is coming up quite quickly.
Sally MacFarlane: So is there.
Sally MacFarlane: Apart from those things we just talked about is there, other things that we're waiting on.
Sally MacFarlane: Between 2.0.
Danno Ferrin: Where i'm all the freaking changes around.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah, but if we if we wait a few more days before we do it to then, I guess, we should.
Sally MacFarlane: push 24 zero out like 30th of April to say.
Danno Ferrin: yeah at least give it a week.
yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, but everything's on track, we just want to wait a week off the ice to.
Sally MacFarlane: Go and.
Sally MacFarlane: Release rotations page.
Sally MacFarlane: Work updates about the feature backwards incompatible changes come come with that already done that right.
Danno Ferrin: yeah it's going to start with the notice and the 24 hour release that in 22 so we're going to go to Java 17 you give people full release cycle and so people don't want to go in as reconsidering.
Danno Ferrin: Our selection of jvm to the docker images.
Danno Ferrin: I know there's been some desire to get us on chairman is the default and they're proud of you good time to do it and rework some of the names of some of the conventions so that'd be the right time to do it probably will do the chapter 17.
Sally MacFarlane: Sorry, what was the one you just said, we should think about making.
Danno Ferrin: That was the one that open jdk to came I think it's Tara man i'm not sure exactly how it's spelled pronounce.
Danno Ferrin: Let me bring up my SDK.
Danno Ferrin: SDK this.
came out here.
Danno Ferrin: Sorry, I was gonna I was on Amazon instance.
Sally MacFarlane: If it's not at your fingertips at the compensation.
Danno Ferrin: is coming right up here on T, you are, I am.
Danno Ferrin: That is what adopt open jdk to came and that's one of the more popular distributions as a baseline um it's not tied to any corporation like a Colorado it is we're open jdk is um, which is why are Zulu even which is like I said, some of the Community, like that, as a default.
Sally MacFarlane: The gas too long, is already.
Danno Ferrin: gets merged.
Sally MacFarlane: mentioned yep.
Sally MacFarlane: um.
Sally MacFarlane: I think this is a hangover from last time about the automated security requests.
Danno Ferrin: yeah it was a hold over there was no exciting deltas in it so.
Sally MacFarlane: No action for that.
Danno Ferrin: Right.
Sally MacFarlane: metrics.
Sally MacFarlane: Unless you guys really want to go through it, I might get up.
Danno Ferrin: there's more of a great thing.
Sally MacFarlane: I did just have a quick look there's nothing so let's do that.
Danno Ferrin: And so that was last week last week on the tsa to talk about new metrics per project reporting, so it will come up again in about another three weeks if people are interested in that grace is there, so.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah okay.
Sally MacFarlane: um.
Sally MacFarlane: And then the open forum, we talked about having a week and.
Sally MacFarlane: Non recorded on discord chat has has that happened in your time zone done.
Danno Ferrin: i'm not yet I haven't heard the time it's happening, and this was a bad week for it to happen, because everyone was that uh.
Danno Ferrin: yeah i'm.
Danno Ferrin: The answer down at the dead connect yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah we haven't we haven't had this Thompson yet either, and I think it's a good idea, just seems like this short and volunteers to actually make it happen.
Danno Ferrin: yeah every everything I propose is like Oh, we got from that Oh, we got this other meeting, then.
Sally MacFarlane: Suddenly you're right.
Danno Ferrin: My proposals have gone on dry.
yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: deprecating love for Jay.
Sally MacFarlane: I think the sticking point that was the DJ company X, no.
Sally MacFarlane: way around that.
Danno Ferrin: um.
Danno Ferrin: No, we haven't I think if resolvable, but I think it's something Vigo need to push it on it's not important enough to me to carry it out.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: And in good news, the looks to me analysis is now working.
Sally MacFarlane: So I think there was some helpful input for me to get that I will say.
Sally MacFarlane: Thank you.
Sally MacFarlane: Anything else a want to cover.
Hart Montgomery: Can hijack this to ask a question.
sure.
Hart Montgomery: So we're putting together the global forum program committee right now we are short on basic people.
Hart Montgomery: Would either of you be interested or would you all recommend anyone who would be interested and being on the global forum.
Hart Montgomery: PC who's familiar with based.
Danno Ferrin: programs many yep.
Sally MacFarlane: what's involved in.
Doing.
Hart Montgomery: Review talks and probably a couple meetings to discuss.
Hart Montgomery: What to accept.
Hart Montgomery: So I would say, probably were estimating about.
Hart Montgomery: five to six hours total of reviewing proposals and then maybe two hours of meetings.
Sally MacFarlane: When do you need to know.
Hart Montgomery: Sometimes we would be ideal.
Sally MacFarlane: Well yeah I can think about it, give a T.
Sally MacFarlane: shirt do you need one person to like is one person enough.
Hart Montgomery: A one or two would be good.
Danno Ferrin: So on yeah we'd be good for the technicals I don't know how.
Danno Ferrin: You know if you need business people as well or not.
Hart Montgomery: um yeah it's probably That would be good, but we may be able to get those I think that that's an easier thing to get in sort of the.
Hart Montgomery: The business focus talks are sort of easier for people who aren't as familiar with the project to analyze.
Hart Montgomery: If that makes sense.
Hart Montgomery: yeah like.
Hart Montgomery: We.
Hart Montgomery: You know, we just need at least one technical basic person who can you know, for lack of a better word called bs.
Hart Montgomery: Basically talks on technical base who talks.
Danno Ferrin: i'm I have a project planning meeting tomorrow i'll have a better idea what my availability is over the next month, once we get through that there's a really big hit a feature that they've got me critical path on and it's kind of stressful.
Hart Montgomery: You say what it is.
Danno Ferrin: yeah actually it's a hip for 10.
Danno Ferrin: we're embedding a theory of transactions inside of a darragh.
Danno Ferrin: To enable consumer wallets to be able to post it there are so.
Hart Montgomery: cool.
Danno Ferrin: that's a pretty is public so it's not like i'm hiding anything.
Hart Montgomery: yeah yeah no that's a that's a nice feature.
Hart Montgomery: that'll be a good certainly a strong functionality.
Danno Ferrin: I know.
Danno Ferrin: kind of in light of one of the topics topics that i'm.
Danno Ferrin: Jim wants to propose from from firefly on to talk about is there's interoperability and consumer tools and enterprise systems.
Hart Montgomery: So.
Danno Ferrin: To get back in.
Hart Montgomery: we're going to have a lot of interoperability talks, but I mean that's seems to be what's in demand.
Hart Montgomery: So that's.
Hart Montgomery: that's probably the hottest area we're seeing right now.
Hart Montgomery: In terms of at least one come across my desk is people are.
Hart Montgomery: very concerned with you know, integration and interoperability so.
Danno Ferrin: I don't want access my fabric instance with Meta mask.
Hart Montgomery: yeah nobody wants to write smart contract code twice right.
Danno Ferrin: yeah so.
Danno Ferrin: Might might beat second life borough or some other mdm solution for fabric, who knows we'll see.
Hart Montgomery: No, I well I think borough is.
Hart Montgomery: Gone but.
Danno Ferrin: i'd be totally repurpose.
Hart Montgomery: yeah i'd be curious to see what fabric, would do with like.
Hart Montgomery: I don't know how easy or hard, it would be to.
Hart Montgomery: To run an avm and fabric, I mean fabric has made some I consider unfortunate design.
Hart Montgomery: Decisions where there are a lot of things that are not as modular as you would like them.
Hart Montgomery: So, like the protocol ends up having hooks all over the place.
Danno Ferrin: yeah.
Hart Montgomery: Like there's a bunch of stuff that you just.
Hart Montgomery: You just really don't like to see like they've essentially a hard coded like X 509 functionality all over the place, so if you want to change the signing algorithm or anything like that it's just a nightmare.
Danno Ferrin: sounds like basic.
Danno Ferrin: To be honest.
Danno Ferrin: It is a hearing problem if we if we try to put network signatures inside of a theorem it would be a nightmare, because it had to change you can't extract public keys from an Edward signature, we have that mark fields it's a transaction.
Danno Ferrin: Nobody wants to rewrite Meta mask.
Hart Montgomery: or being people are supporting bls signatures in the future right.
Danno Ferrin: yeah.
Hart Montgomery: I mean.
Danno Ferrin: But it's gonna be like.
Hart Montgomery: yeah that's amazing though right because it's very easy to get if you're running a permission blockchain.
Hart Montgomery: You can use bls signatures and get a signed state of the blockchain right if you threshold eyes.
Hart Montgomery: And that's just super useful for so many applications where you have people that need to acquire the blockchain.
Danno Ferrin: yeah so.
Hart Montgomery: I don't know that's always excited me.
Hart Montgomery: So.
Danno Ferrin: pay close again.
Danno Ferrin: Please see it this week, not next week.
Hart Montgomery: it's this week.
Hart Montgomery: So, submit a ton of talks like.
Hart Montgomery: The way the Linux foundation likes to do these things is.
Hart Montgomery: For people like yourself there.
Hart Montgomery: They will definitely be interested in having you give a talk.
Hart Montgomery: But they would like some input as to what precise talk you give.
Hart Montgomery: And so, if you if you can't decide submit multiple things and they'll say like well, we want to pick this talk from Daniel now this other one.
So.
Hart Montgomery: it's a really lightweight process it's essentially like to like paragraph blurbs of text so it's lightweight to write it as lightweight to review so.
Danno Ferrin: I think I know what I want to talk on though just the things I had to do to get em working well inside of Tara and what i'm working on now will really be the final piece of that.
Danno Ferrin: yeah like integration thing.
Hart Montgomery: that's a really good talk and because there are going to be lots of other people who are want to get the vm running inside their block chain and there's a lot to learn for that, so I think that's an excellent.
Hart Montgomery: excellent proposal yeah.
Danno Ferrin: So anyone from Australia.
Danno Ferrin: Ireland.
Hart Montgomery: it's a really lightweight process so.
Hart Montgomery: Last year, I think I submitted I like submitted five on Friday, the Friday afternoon, they were do.
Sally MacFarlane: You.
Hart Montgomery: Know started submitted, I submitted a bunch for other people to you can propose people.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah so.
Hart Montgomery: I did.
Sally MacFarlane: uh huh.
Sally MacFarlane: where's the information on the actual process.
Hart Montgomery: Great question.
Hart Montgomery: they've splattered it really everywhere online.
Hart Montgomery: If you just Google hyper ledger that if you Google hyper ledger global forum you'll find it.
Hart Montgomery: it's not it's here there's the link I just posted in the zoom chat.
So.
Hart Montgomery: it's also going to be.
Hart Montgomery: This immediate it's I think immediately following the Member summit and immediately before OSS Europe.
So.
Hart Montgomery: At least for me it's a.
Hart Montgomery: it's a travel once and hit three events so.
Danno Ferrin: what's the Europe Linux what's the other one.
Hart Montgomery: I remember summit.
Danno Ferrin: Every summer oh yeah that's the day before yeah.
Hart Montgomery: So we used to do those separately but.
Hart Montgomery: it's good to.
Sally MacFarlane: travel.
Hart Montgomery: yeah well we used to have a lot of travel, where they would.
Hart Montgomery: Do like two day events and nobody wants to do a long flight for two day events right.
yeah right.
Hart Montgomery: So it's better to lump things together, and you know.
Hart Montgomery: You have like two events, a year, people will consider traveling for them, you know if they're like nice four week events, if you have like an event every two months that it's.
Hart Montgomery: Two days it's it's a lot harder to convince people to go.
Sally MacFarlane: Especially now, I guess, with the blood.
Hart Montgomery: yeah now used to traveling and like people have done virtual conferences so really have to.
Hart Montgomery: You really have to make the hallway track.
Hart Montgomery: Important.
Hart Montgomery: If you want to you know get people to go to conferences, where sort of the you know meeting people and discussing things is the centerpiece rather than.
Hart Montgomery: You know, going to the tags this work for us like cactus happened.
Hart Montgomery: Because of some conversations at these conferences.
So.
Hart Montgomery: yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: Thanks guys anything else.
Sally MacFarlane: wrap it up.
Hart Montgomery: For me so.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay cool recording will be posted.
Sally MacFarlane: Thanks.
Hart Montgomery: Thanks a lot.